=== PAGE 10 ===
8  
14.  Rubrics  
 
The undergraduate capstone project will be graded by the members of the examination 
committee including the project supervisor and members from IAP. The set of rubrics shown in the 
following table can be used as a sample for grading.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Criteria 
                                                           Level of Achievement 
Excellent 
5 
Good 
4 
Marginally 
satisfactory 
3 
Needs 
improvement 
2 
Poor 
≦1 
Project 
Synopsis 
(10%) 
[CO1, CO2,] 
       [PO1- 5% 
PO2- 5%] 
 
 
The description is completely 
clear, succinct, simple, and 
persuasive. 
 
The description is clear and 
convincing, however there 
are some minor issues. 
The description is 
sufficient but requires 
additional clarity, and it 
does not provide a 
comprehensive 
explanation of the project 
with a clear overview. 
Few features of the 
idea are evident, 
whereas the majority 
are obscure. 
It is not really 
apparent what the 
proposal is. 
Appraising the 
state of the art 
(10%) 
[CO1, CO2, CO12] 
        [PO1- 2.5% 
PO2- 2.5% 
 PO12- 5%] 
There is an adequate analysis 
of a sufficient number of 
exactly relevant and 
contemporary works. 
a greater quantity of existing 
works that are precisely 
relevant but are not recent 
are reviewed. 
There is a greater focus 
on reviewing a larger 
quantity of existing 
advancement that are 
broadly pertinent but are 
not recent. 
Only a few works 
that are widely 
relevant are 
reviewed. 
No analysis of the 
current advancement 
of the relevant work 
available has been 
conducted. 
Design 
competence 
and economic 
viability 
(25%) 
  [CO3, CO4, CO5, 
CO6, CO9] 
 
         [PO4- 5% 
PO8- 2.5% 
PO5- 2.5% 
PO11- 5% 
PO3-10%] 
 
 
 
The necessary tools, 
procedures and workflows are 
clearly stated and absolutely 
feasible, the design looks 
economically practical. 
The necessary tools, 
procedures and workflows 
are stated and feasible, the 
design can be economically 
practical. 
It seems that the project's 
execution methods and 
procedures are feasible, 
yet there exists ambiguity 
from an economical point 
of view.. 
The necessary tools, 
procedures and 
workflows are 
vaguely described, 
the design appears 
economically 
impractical. 
Absence of 
workflows, 
impractical design 

=== PAGE 11 ===
9  
 
 
Criteria 
                                                           Level of Achievement 
Excellent 
5 
Good 
4 
Marginally 
satisfactory 
3 
Needs 
improvement 
2 
Poor 
≦1 
Project 
Implementation 
and Outcome 
(20%) 
[CO3, CO5, CO9, 
CO10] 
        [PO4- 5% 
PO5- 5% 
         PO3- 5% 
         PO9- 5%] 
The hypothesis to be 
explored, probable outcomes, 
and how they will be 
distinguished have all been 
fully and precisely described 
by the student and both the 
existing and the proposed 
models are accomplished 
successfully 
The hypothesis to be 
explored, probable 
outcomes, and how they will 
be distinguished have all 
been fully described by the 
student and the existing 
model is implemented and a 
large portion of the new 
model is also accomplished. 
The hypothesis to be 
explored, probable 
outcomes, and how they 
will be distinguished have 
all been adequately 
described by the student 
and the existing model is 
implemented for 
benchmarking purposes. 
The proposed model 
lacks accurate 
identification of its 
individual modules 
and the hypothesis 
to be explored, 
probable outcomes, 
and how they will be 
distinguished have 
been poorly 
described by the 
student. 
No identification of 
different modules of 
the project has been 
done and students 
have failed to clarify 
the question to be 
answered, the 
possible results, or 
how they will be 
distinguished. 
Socio - 
Cultural, 
environmental 
and ethical 
impact 
(15%) 
 [CO7, CO8] 
[PO6- 7.5% 
PO7- 7.5%] 
The proposed project has a 
high impact on the 
environment, society, or 
culture and also has decent 
ethical significance. 
The proposed project has a 
high impact on the 
environment, society, or 
culture but has no ethical 
significance. 
The proposed project has 
a moderate impact on the 
environment, society, or 
culture but has no ethical 
significance. 
The proposed 
project has a 
relatively mild impact 
on the environment, 
society, or culture 
but has no ethical 
significance. 
The proposed project 
has no effect on the 
environment, society, 
or culture, and has no 
ethical significance. 
Project 
presentation/p
oster/defense 
(10%) 
[CO10, CO11] 
          [PO9- 5% 
PO10- 5%] 
Students exhibit a superior 
Capstone Project with an 
investigation, service learning, 
or innovative methodologies 
and present an advanced 
project poster/defense. 
Student’s responses clearly 
show thorough 
comprehension and depth of 
the problem beyond the 
presentation 
Students exhibit a moderate 
Capstone Project with an 
investigation, service 
learning, or innovative 
methodologies and present 
an adequate project 
poster/defense. 
Student’s responses show 
adequate comprehension 
and depth of the problem 
beyond the presentation 
Students exhibit a 
Capstone Project with an 
investigation or 
innovative methodologies 
and present a project 
poster/defense properly. 
Student’s responses show 
moderate comprehension 
and depth of the problem 
beyond presentation 
Students exhibit a 
Capstone Project 
with an investigation 
of methodologies 
and present a project 
poster/defense 
which lacks proper 
justification. 
Student’s responses 
show inadequate 
comprehension and 
depth of the 
problem beyond the 
presentation 
Students fail to 
present the 
defense/poster of the 
project with any kind 
of justification. 
Responses from 
students fail to reveal 
a depth of insight or 
comprehension of the 
issue. 
Project Report 
(10%) 
[CO11] 
[PO10-10%] 
Advanced degrees of 
comprehension and 
application of the experience 
are shown in the capstone 
project report.  The Capstone 
Project Report demonstrates 
exceptional knowledge and/or 
inventiveness. 
Proper degrees of 
comprehension and 
application of the experience 
are shown in the capstone 
project report.  The 
Capstone Project Report 
demonstrates proper 
knowledge. 
Degrees of 
comprehension and 
application of the 
experience are shown in 
the capstone project 
report.  The Capstone 
Project Report 
demonstrates proper 
knowledge. 
Degrees of 
comprehension and 
application of the 
experience are 
shown in the 
capstone project 
report, which lacks 
the demonstration of 
proper knowledge. 
Students fail to 
generate report for 
the capstone project 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 12 ===
10  
 
15. Course Outcomes (COs) and their Mapping with Program Outcomes 
(POs) 
 
COs CO Statement POs 
CO1 Apply knowledge of electrical and electronic engineering to the 
solution of complex engineering problems. PO1 
CO2 Identify a contemporary real life problem related to electrical and 
electronic engineering by reviewing and analyzing existing 
research works. 
PO2 
CO3 Determine functional requirements of the problem considering 
feasibility and efficiency through analysis and synthesis of 
information. 
PO4 
CO4 Select a suitable solution and determine its method considering 
professional ethics, codes and standards. PO8 
CO5 
 
Adopt modern engineering resources and tools for the solution of 
the problem.  PO5 
CO6 Prepare management plan and budgetary implications for the 
solution of the problem. PO11 
CO7 Analyze the impact of the proposed solution on health, safety, 
culture and society. PO6 
CO8 Analyze the impact of the proposed solution on environment and 
sustainability. PO7 
CO9 Develop a viable solution considering health, safety, cultural, 
societal and environmental aspects. PO3 
CO10 Work effectively as an individual and as a team member for the 
accomplishment of the solution. PO9 
CO11 Prepare various technical reports, design documentation, and 
deliver effective presentations for demonstration of the solution. PO10 
CO12 Recognize the need for continuing education and participation in 
professional societies and meetings. PO12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.  Organization of the Report 
 
The organization of report will contain the following pages: 
 
Title Page 
Declaration Page 
Approval Page 
Acknowledgements 
Abstract 

=== PAGE 13 ===
11  
Contents Page 
List of Figures 
List of Tables 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
Chapter 2: Literature Review & Methodology 
Chapter 3: Main Work (may be extended 2 to 3 chapters) 
Chapter 4: Results and Discussions 
Chapter 5: Conclusions 
References 
Appendices 
 
 
17. Contents of the Chapters 
 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
A brief description of the background, motivation, and objectives should be placed in this 
chapter. The organization of this report shall also be included here. 
 
Chapter 2: Literature Review & Methodology 
A review of the literature found in the research area, with particular emphasis on theories and 
debates on the subject should be included in this chapter. A review of the methods used to carry 
out this research with a discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of the approach followed and 
the approaches rejected will also be placed here. This will place the research into a  broader 
academic context and may give a theory or hypothesis that someone wishes to test in empirical 
research. 
 
Chapter 3: Main Work (Design, Implementation, Experimentation, Simulation, etc.) 
A detailed analysis of theoretical studies and experiments (if any) to carry out this research should 
be placed in this chapter. 
 
Chapter 4: Results and Discussions 
An account of what was found from this study and a more critical analysis of the results in 
which someone discusses the results in the context of the original aims should be placed in this 
chapter. 
 
 
Chapter 5: Conclusions 
A brief summary of the findings and recommendations for future work should be included in 
this chapter. 
 
 
18.  Format of the Report 
 
I. GENERAL DOCUMENT GUIDELINES 
 
Paper: The project must be printed on good quality white paper on both sides of the paper. 

=== PAGE 14 ===
12  
 
Length: Minimum length is 40 pages, which only includes the main text and excludes the 
endnotes and appendices. There is no Maximum number of pages. The project will be evaluated 
based on quality instead of length. 
 
Margins: Left Margin – 3 cm, Right Margin – 2.5 cm, Top Margin – 2.5 cm, Bottom Margin 
– 2.5 cm, Header 1 cm, Footer 1 cm. 
 
Font Size and Type: 12-point Times New Roman font. 
 
Line Spacing: Documents should be 1.5-line spacing throughout, except for the text of the table 
having more than two lines in a cell. 
 
Paragraph Indentions: 1 cm 
 
Order of Materials: Title Page, Declaration Page, Approval Page, Acknowledgments, 
Abstract, Table of Contents, List of Figures, List of Tables, the Text of the Project, List of 
References, Appendix. (see the template) 
Numbering of Pages: Page numbers must be centered 1.5 cm below the bottom margin as set 
by the footer. There is no heading to the left or right of the page number. The placement of page 
numbers must be consistent throughout the project. Pages should be numbered sequentially 
throughout the chapter. Preliminary pages are numbered as follows: 
 The title page is counted as page i (assumed, do not print number) 
 The remaining preliminary pages are numbered with lowercase Roman numerals (ii, iiii, 
etc). 
 The main body of the text and the reference section are consecutively numbered with 
Arabic numerals beginning on page “1” and continuing throughout, including text, 
illustrative materials, a list of references, and appendices. 
 
 
II. PRELIMINARY PAGES 
 
The preliminary pages include the title page, declaration page, signature page, 
acknowledgments, abstract, table of contents, list of figures, and list of tables. No page numbers 
should be shown for the title page but it is assumed to be page i. Then s tarting from the 
declaration page until the abstract pages will be numbered with lowercase Roman numerals and 
considered to be page ii to ix. 
 
 
 
Title page: (see the template) 
1. Logo of Islamic University of Technology, Bangladesh. 
2. Name of Islamic University of Technology, Bangladesh: Title case, Bold, Times New 
Roman, 14- point, Centered. 
3. Title of Project: Title case, Bold, Times New Roman, 20-point font, Centered. 
4. Student’s Name and ID: Title case, Times New Roman, 14-point font, Centered. 
5. Statement of presentation in the form: “in Consideration of Partial Fulfillment for the 
Requirements of the Degree of BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ELECTRICAL AND 
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING”; Times New Roman, 12-point font, Centered. 
6. Name of the Department: Title case, Times New Roman 14-point font, Centered. 
3. The term and Year of project submission: Title case, Times New Roman, 14-point font, 

=== PAGE 15 ===
13  
Centered. 
 
Declaration page: (see the template) 
1. The word “DECLARATION” in  uppercase, Bold, Times New Roman, 16-point 
font, Centered. 
2. The declaration “I do hereby …… an academic qualification/certificate/diploma or 
degree: Title case, Times New Roman 12-point font, justified. 
3. Student’s Name and ID: Title case, Times New Roman, 12-point font, Centered. 
4. Signature of students with date: Title case, Times New Roman, 12-point font, Centered. 
The original signature of the students must be put above the name and ID. 
 
Approval Page: (see the template) 
1. Title of Project: Title case, Bold, Times New Roman, 16-point font, Centered. 
2. Student’s Name and ID: Title case, Times New Roman, 14-point font, Centered. 
3. Approval from project supervisor in the form: lower case, Times New Roman, 12-point 
font, Centered. 
4. Supervisor’s name with title and Academic Position: Times New Roman, 12-point font, 
Centered. 
5. Original Signature of t h e  project supervisor in the final copy is required (if 
submitting electronically, the signature page is left unsigned) 
 
Acknowledgments (see the template) : This page is to thank those who have helped in the 
process of obtaining the degree. Permission to quote copyrighted material is listed here, as well 
as acknowledgments for grants and special funding if any. This should occupy a single page 
and be 1.5-line spaced. 
 
Abstract (see the template) : The project must contain an abstract. An abstract is a concise 
account of the project or dissertation and should state the problem, describe the procedure or 
method used, and summarize the conclusions reached. Paragraphs are formatted with the same 
layout used in the document. This should occupy a single page and be 1.5-line spaced. 
 
Table of Contents (see the template): Follow the format of the abbreviated sample included in 
these instructions. For clarity, use 12 -point font. All chapter titles, headings, and subheadings 
should appear in the Table of Contents. The font style of items listed within the  Table of 
Contents should be the same as the font used within the text (e.g. headings listed within the 
Table of Contents are in the same font style as in the body of the project). 
 
List of Figures and List of Tables (see the template): The list of figures/ tables must conform 
to the examples provided in the template and include all tables or figures (i.e. illustrations, 
photographs, pie/bar charts, and maps) within the body of the project li sted by table/figure 
number and table/figure caption. The figure number should be placed below the figure followed 
by the figure caption and be centered. The table number should be placed above the table 
followed by the table caption and be centered. 
 
 
III. BODY OF THE REPORT: 
 
Page numbering: The body of the project and appendices are numbered in Arabic numerals 
starting with 1 and continuing until the last page of the project. 
 
Chapter: The first line of the first chapter will be “CHAPTER 1”, uppercase, 20-point bold. 

=== PAGE 16 ===
14  
The title of the chapter in capital letters and centered appears two lines below. Use an inverted 
pyramid and 1.5 line spacing succeeding lines of the title if it is longer than one line. Three lines 
below the chapter title, place the first line of text. Succeeding chapters, “ CHAPTER 2”, etc., 
should follow this same format. Do not use terminal punctuation on any chapter headings. Each 
chapter should begin on a new page. An example is shown on the following page. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 1 
INTRODUCTION 
 
 
The first level of chapter 1 will be placed here. 
 
 
Headings and Subheadings of Chapters: The subdivision within a chapter or section does not 
begin on a new page unless the preceding page is filled. If there is no room for the complete 

=== PAGE 17 ===
15  
heading and at least two lines of text at the bottom of a page, the new subdivision should begin 
on the next page. All chapter titles and headings should follow the following example. 
Example 
 
1.1 First level heading: Sentence case, Bold, 12 point. 
You would indent and start writing the text here 
 
1.1.1 Second level heading: Sentence case, Bold, 12 point. 
You would start writing the text here after the period and keep wrapping around 
underneath the subheading like this. 
 
1.1.1.1. Third level heading: Lower case, Italic, 12 point. 
You would start writing the text here after the period and keep wrapping around 
underneath the subheading like this. 
 
Captioning and Numbering the Figures: The numbering of figures will start with the chapter 
number followed by the numbers in Arabic numerals by placing a decimal point in between. 
For example, figure numbers in chapter 2 will start as Figure 2.1, Figure 2.2, and so on. The 
figure caption will follow the figure number and should be placed at the bottom of each figure. 
Below is an example of a figure caption and number. 
 
 
Captioning and Numbering the Tables: The numbering of tables will start with the chapter 
number followed by the numbers in capital Roman by placing a hyphen in between. For 
example, table numbers in ch apter 3 will start as Table 3.1, Table 3.2, and so on. The Table 
caption will follow the Table number and should be placed at the top of each Table. Below is 
an example of a figure caption and number. 
 
Table 3.1 Circuit parameters of proposed immittance circuit 
 
Components Values 
V1 200 [volt] 
L1 = L2 23.6 mH 
C 15.6 F 
r1 = r2 0.28  
 
 
 
IV. REFERENCES 
 


=== PAGE 18 ===
16  
Be sure that if a work is cited in the text, it must be in the references and vice versa. The 
references must be cited in the text in ascending order as they are listed and be single-line 
spaced. Concerning the format of the references, using a hanging indent i.e. the first line of the 
reference is flushed to the left margin and the rest of the reference is indented ½ cm. The first 
and middle names (if given) of the author(s) are listed in initials only. The title of the work  
should be placed within double inverted commas followed by the journal title/conference name 
(in italic), issue/volume number, page numbers, and year of publication in parentheses except 
for books, electronic resources, and company reports. The above rules for listing references  of 
journal articles, conference proceedings, books, and electronic sources (websites) are presented 
with examples as follows: 
 
1. For Journal Articles 
[1] A. Vaskuri, H. Baumgartner, P. Kärhä, G. Andor, and E. Ikonen, "Modeling the spectral 
shape of InGaAlP-based red light-emitting diodes," Journal of Applied Physics, vol. 118, no. 
20, pp. 203103-1–203103-7, Jul. 2015 
 
2. For Conference Proceedings 
[2] Mingyue Yu, Anfeng Liu, Neal N. Xiong, Tian Wang, "An Intelligent Game -Based 
Offloading Scheme for Maximizing Benefits of IoT -Edge-Cloud Ecosystems", IEEE 
Internet of Things Journal, vol.9, no.8, pp.5600-5616, 2022. 
 
3. For Dissertation/Project 
[3] Knight, K. A., “Media epidemics: Viral structures in literature and new media”, A Doctoral 
Dissertation presented at University of California, Santa Barbara (January, 2011). 
 
4. For Internship Report 
[4] Alejandro Maria, “Development of a GUI for a SAXS data analysis modeling program for 
modeling proteins in solution”, An internship report presented at Joseph Fourier University, 
France (December, 2009). 
 
5. For Books 
[5] D Jennings, A. Flint, Introduction to Medical Electronics Applications, John Wiley and Sons, 
4th Edition (2010). 
 
6. For Electronic Resources (websites) 
[6] http://www.neural-semiconductor.com/home accessed on 23 October, 2022. 
 
7. For Company/Industry/Organization Report 
[7] NSL Annual report, July, 2022. 
 
 
V. APPENDICES 
 
Appendices may include data tables, source codes, analytical procedures, survey forms, or any 
other supplementary material provided by the supervisory committee. Each Appendix begins 
on a separate page. Each Appendix is labeled with ascending letters (e.g. A, B, C, etc.) and a title. 
Pages should be numbered in sequence with the rest of the project. The same margins and line 
spacing should be maintained as used in the body of the text. 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 19 ===
17  
HARDBOUND COPY 
 
A hardbound copy cover (top and side views) is given on the following 2 pages. 
  

=== PAGE 20 ===
18  
 
 
 
ISLAMIC UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY  
 
 


=== PAGE 21 ===
19  
 
 
 
 
 
 


